Edward, how do we pronounce your name, just for the record?
Cassinette.
Cassinette, just the word.
Exactly, in New York.
Why don't you just, if you don't like starting again, at least picking up so there's a context for the case.
What I tried to do was to simply... The red light's on, right?
Yeah, I know.
I simply tried to set a framework for you for art
specific discussion, and what I was indicating was that during most of the Soviet period, the seventy-some-odd years, the historiography on the book as it was presented in Russia had a number of very important assumptions.
first one being that all of these diverse ethnic groups, and we're talking about a country that goes through X number of time zones, from the Caucasian groups to the Central Asian groups to the peoples of Northern Russia, the Yakuts, the Chukchins, all of these groups, that their book cultures were always interpreted as
within the context of the present structure of the Soviet Union, and their book cultures projected backwards and made to appear as if... As a matter of state policy, they were projected backwards?
This is a matter, yes, of state policy and of state interpretation, that these groups were in somehow
destined to be incorporated into the 20th century, into this socialist communist state.
And so you have very anomalous things happen.
When you would pick up a textbook on bibliography or history of libraries, you would see these histories being studied to the early years, you know, early millennia, and
And diverse ethnic groups pulled in, even though religiously and in terms of scripts and in terms of book cultures, they were very, very heterogeneous.
And the second point that I would make is that the influence of Soviet writing about the book
was immense because their writings were published in vast tirages.
What would be a vast tirage for us?
What is that word?
Print run.
Would you say the word once more?
Tirage.
That's a Russian word.
No, it's a cauch from the French, originally.
How do you spell it?
T-I-R-A-Z-H.
So for example, a book like yours, in the period of high socialism, high communism, it would not be unusual for a book like yours to maybe be printed in 5,000, 7,000, 10,000 copies.
You wouldn't even bat an eye.
And you would have no problem in publishing it.
You wouldn't have to particularly go
Make a market for it, as I mentioned.
Right, exactly.
Or certainly justify the fact that there's a market that would justify its being published.
Exactly.
You wouldn't have to do it because you'd be a member of a library, you'd be a member of some scholarly academy, and this work would be put into your work plan over a period of five years.
You would be paid, and so you'd get an honorarium,
its publication.
Now, I think that the subsidies, the support of scholarship and of libraries explains why you do have this vast amount of bibliographical book culture publishing.
things that would be very difficult to float in the West.
The next thing that I would just observe is that as other Eastern European countries came into the Soviet orbit in the 20th century, Soviet Russian library structures, book culture, also had a tremendous influence on them, on Bulgaria.
on Poland, on the Czech Republic, Slovakia, the former Yugoslavia, all of them, to one degree or another, began to take on the character of what was going on in Russia.
And the official ideology of scholarship until very recent times were
Marxist, Leninist views of the role of the book.
So, for example... Well, it was a political role, again, to go back to that work.
Exactly.
And what, for example, you would have... Books served their purpose.
Absolutely.
And libraries served a purpose of direction, rather than
In information, and let me put a finer point on this.
When you look in any history of book culture, and I keep using that term because it's a shorthand for me.
The book culture phrase?
Yeah.
It means... Maybe we should have a working definition of it.
Okay.
It means everything that relates to the history of readership, to the history of libraries, to the history of bibliography,
to the history of book circulation, to the history of topography, to the history of bibliophilism, to the history of book collecting, that whole gamut of problems.
And there were a couple of assumptions that governed what was produced in this century.
Number one, the great role of
economic forces.
So you had tremendous interest in topography, in the printing industry, in how these industries developed, tremendous interest in the role of women,
of the socialist book publishers, of the late 90s, social democratic book publishers, late 19th, early 20th century.
A lack of interest and distortion of religious book collectors, of people who were high arts of the church, or religious figures, the diminution of the
lack of emphasis on the religious book, religious book printing.
Can I ask you a question?
Yeah.
Were there legitimate book collectors in the Soviet Union during the Soviet period?
Absolutely.
Were they underground?
Were they able to operate?
Did they have to be a member of the government or the party?
I mean, was there an approved form of focus, like, you know, in the writing?
Socialist realism.
I mean, if you went outside of that, you got in deep trouble.
Okay.
Let me say the following, that there are two levels on which I can answer your question.
What if you wanted to collect decadent American fiction or something like that?
I think you would have... Let me... You don't mind my throwing out questions like that?
No.
It's a dialogue.
I want to clarify.
Before 1917, in the 17th, 18th, 19th century,
There were fantastic nuclear files in Russia.
And again, keep in mind that we're talking today mostly about the Russian Empire, as opposed to the rest of Eastern Europe.
Because we could talk about Bohemia, Czech,
we could talk about Yugoslav, former Yugoslav on its own, in a similar vein.
Before the revolution, there were fantastic book collectors, mostly people who had significant wealth, wealth that was built from
on some kind of concession, on some kind of manufacturing, whether it was textile or whether it was some kind of concessions for alcohol or whatever.
Then there were, of course, members of the gentry and the nobility, who were also major, major collectors, which would rival any library,
that you could possibly study in America or Europe?
Will we be able to document a few of these?
No problem.
And of course, what happened to these?
I don't mean to jump ahead, but what happened when the Soviets took over?
Well, you can guess.
Major private collections before the Revolution were housed on people's estates and monasteries.
estate houses and their townhouses in the major cities.
And after the revolution, the government, of course, and I'm really capsulizing here, the government made claims to collections whose value transcended
simply personal interest, they took on a national character, they were nationalized, confiscated, libraries, divided up, reallocated, to this collection, to this collection, to create some of the monster libraries, and I retract that term, not monster libraries, but super libraries, the Lenin Library, the Salterkosche, although they existed before, I mean, they made them,
gargantuan collection.
Will we be able to document some of these individual collections?
Is this kind of, in a way, a replication of what happened in England when we had the dissolution of the monasteries?
Except that in England, the stuff was destroyed in a wholesale manner.
But I'm wondering if it did evolve, because you had a, you know, this was philosophical, it was religious,
And here it's political.
I'm wondering if it was a similar kind of a thing.
There are... Sir, I'm stretching it here.
No, at all points in history, one could find analogies to what went on in Russia.
But here we're talking about the scale was enormous.
This is a vast, vast empire.
And there's various parts.
I don't think this has been written about, has it?
It hasn't been...
You know, it couldn't really have been easily written about because we didn't have the perspective that we have in 97.
After all, it's now been 10 years since things began to unravel in Eastern Europe.
The Velvet Revolution and the Czech Republic and other political perturbations in Poland and suddenly eventually the collapse of... What I'm saying is...
This is strictly, you know, I'm here thinking as a writer and looking for opportunities.
I think I have an opportunity here to write about something that hasn't really been done.
I mean, I think it's... Is that a fair... I think so.
I think so.
I don't know really of... of anyone who in...
in English, has looked upon the development of book culture in that part of the world, and when I say that part of the world, all of Eastern Europe going from the borders with Germany all the way to the Pacific, with some kind of distance.
I see this is a good opportunity.
And particularly if you were able...
to properly focus on some of the key people, some of the key events.
Do you think we can more or less identify them?
Yeah, I think we can, and I want to just finish what... I'm sorry, you don't mind my... No.
Because if I don't say things, I forget them, too, or I lose them.
What I wanted, just to finish your question about the bibliophiles, in the Soviet period,
There were tremendous opportunities for book collectors.
If you were an academic, or if you were a collector, you had... For Soviet book collectors, not for people who were outside the Soviet Union, don't you mean?
No, I mean for people who lived in the period... Who lived in the Soviet Union.
Right, exactly.
Because there were tremendous restrictions on travel until very recently.
So they were in a kind of hermetic society.
They could travel relatively easily within the Soviet Union, because travel was cheap.
You could get on a train and go to Moscow, or to go to the Empire of Petrovsk, or to go to Khabarovsk.
That was not a problem.
You couldn't get out of it, out of the borders.
You could go to other socialist countries easily.
And they did.
They went in vast numbers.
But they were always kind of feeding their collecting on themselves, so to speak.
In other words, they had excellent opportunities within the country to buy things cheaply.
If you were, for example, a major writer in Russia, you would be getting significant honorarium.
You would be living reasonably well.
For example, a couple of blocks down from here, there's again Yevtushenko, the poet.
He lives here.
He has a university professorship at Queens College, which is across the lake here.
And a person like Yevtushenko lived like a king.
He was in favor.
But it gave him money.
gave him prestige.
He would go into a bookstore by antiquarian books, by, you know, beautiful dealer.
I'm sure he did.
Go and ask him.
But maybe we will.
Let me show you one thing that may just put a finer point in it.
Excuse me.
Does he speak English?
Oh, of course.
OK, good.
Here's a book.
And some of these people I actually have met, some of them are now gone.
We're looking for a tissue.
Oh, great.
Thank you.
I'm at the tail end of a cold here.
Christina Burris.
Okay.
But I don't want to dwell on this.
I just want to get the title done.
That's true.
There's an apartment.
That doesn't look like it was interrupted during any... She was okay.
So why?
Why did they protect her?
Why did they allow her to live?
Because there are... I don't know.
Is this a Russian book?
I had to say, is this book published in Russia?
No, it was published in the West.
But I could find, the only reason I published one of it is it's very dramatic.
In a person's apartment, really bites me.
And showing some of his.
Wow.
So, here it is.
And this is just being revealed again now, right?
And here's another guy who collects paintings.
Wow.
And so on and so on.
Now... Can I get the name of the publisher of this book?
Sure, absolutely.
I can figure out how I'm ready to see the book.
Taurus, who are they?
Oh, good idea.
T-A-U-R.
Taurus, K-A-R-K-E book.
London, New York.
And what year was this?
This was 92.
No, my point is about whether these people were able to... I think you just demonstrated that.
I mean, you see the point.
I could take, you know, in Russian, any number of books here to, you know, show what private collectors were
we're doing.
As a matter of fact, it is privileged, and privileged, to know a number of people.
So, for example, going to a person's apartment, he's a geologist, and who does a lot of consulting work on mineral deposits in Russia.
Fantastic collection of early 20th century books from the world of art.
And very often he has
all of the designs for the book, the sketches that went into the making of the book, in one part of his apartment, and the other part, he has the actual book in new conditions.
I'm talking about books that, if sold on the Western market, would be in the tens of thousands of dollars, books by Yeltsin, and so on, and so on, and so on, the future's books.
Now, that's one example.
Then you go into another apartment,
Another friend of mine who now lives in Berlin, he emigrated and he's past living in Moscow in Berlin, went to his apartment to see books of 18th century, fantastic binding, exquisite cabinets, and so on.
And all of these people went about their business in the Soviet period with the great straw, because to get access to these people was very difficult.
And only after checking, cross-checking, and so on, people don't let you into their circle without knowing who you are, whether this is a person that can be trusted, whether this is a discreet person.
So collecting went on, but almost in a kind of padded,
were violent.
Because people did not want.
Let's say that they collected, I don't know.
Do you think we can find somebody, a book collector, who collected at a serious level?
They're still there.
I know, but I mean, an individual that I could talk to could tell me about this.
I think that, Nick, let me make one other qualification.
That
Book collecting and bibliophilism in the Soviet period included millions of people.
There was an official organization called the All Union Society of Bibliophiles, which had also Western members.
I was never asked a joke.
They had their own journal called, and let's go into the other room, just for one second, and I apologize.
This to here is the Almanac of the Bibliophile, which was the official journal
of the All-Union Society.
Now, I just happened to pull this one off, and this proves my point, the point that I made earlier about how they interpreted it.
The book in Mongolia.
You're pointing to two Russian words, which translated as the book in Mongolia.
So in other words, this almanac, this Russian-language almanac, deals... I want to get some illuminated manuscripts here.
Exactly.
Deals with...
the book, not in Russia, but in Mongolia, which was under Soviet domination.
So, and here you have volumes, and it was begun in the probably early 60s.
This journal here, again, proves my point.
Look at this.
Volume 1 through 70, the latest one has just come out in Russia, is called The Book.
And
It contains articles on the history of libraries, on the history of bibliography, history of book culture.
Very important journals.
What's the name of it again?
The Book.
And rather well produced.
This is a scholarly.
Published since 1959.
Now, the reason I want to show you this, everything that you see here are journals, are multi-volume sets.
This was a state-supported industry.
And the organizations that existed got office space, they got subventions, they had their own journals.
I mean, where in the United States do you have something analogous to this?
an organization that has 18 million members, the All-Union Bibliophile Society.
18 million members.
This was a major organization and had their own offices in Moscow, their own journals.
This was one of their journals.
They had other things that they published.
They had conferences, et cetera, that would draw hundreds of people.
as speakers.
Now, did you acquire these all during the period?
Absolutely.
I was a student there.
Where were you students?
1971, in Moscow.
I lived there 13 months.
And studied where?
Moscow University.
With a man who also was a great specialist in bibliography, Sergei Sergeyevich Dmitry.
And these are the works
scholarly works of the Lennon Library.
Here, they published their own journal.
And these are major histories numbered of book people, of collectors, of bibliographers, and realized that all of this stuff is modern material.
In other words, I don't have any rare books here.
This is a working research library.
It's a professional library, not a bibliophile.
But if I had had the money or the opportunity, I could have gotten vast quantities of older 19th century, earlier bibliophilic or book studies literature.
Now, let me mention this man here who lives in London, Professor Butler.
He's a lawyer.
B-U-T-L-E-R.
Right.
W.E.
Butler, he's a professor, or a university professor in London University, and I'm also on the MP board in his journal.
He's called Book Train International, but is very heavily dealing with Eastern Europe.
As you can even see, for example, the earliest printed Russian ex-Lieber's Prince Galitza, 18th century.
My point is that Butler was a foreign member of the Bibliophile Society.
He was very much persona grata.
Grata.
During the Soviet.
I'm going to London in March.
Well, we can set up.
You think it'd be worth my thing?
The other person you must see when you're in England is the grand man of Eastern European book culture.
It also is college John Simmons.
John Simmons.
He's in all souls.
It's J.S.J.
Simmons.
S-Y?
No, S-I.
S-I-N-N-O-N-S.
And all souls is...
Cambridge or Oxford?
Oxford.
It's the greatest research college in Oxford.
It's the one that learns of Arabia.
John Simmons, again, is what?
He is now in his 80s and is a fellow emeritus.
He's retired.
He knows an enormous amount about the history of the book.
Bibliophilism was, you know, traveling to Russia even into the 60s, and knew many of the great collectors and bibliophiles.
So let me just summarize your question.
summarizes that, that in addition to a vast number of very important collectors, for example, academician Markushevich, great physicist, who collected Western internavula.
I knew him.
He died probably, what, ten years ago.
You had these top collectors during the Soviet period.
You also had
bibliophilism, book collecting, librarianship, book culture studies, flourishing because of state's adventures.
And you had hundreds of people, maybe thousands of people, writing books, compiling catalogs.
There's even an encyclopedia of book culture that was gone.
a book culture, an encyclopedic dictionary.
And so, you know, you had articles on libraries, on bookmen, on publishing, on book illustration.
That's fascinating.
And it includes all of the ethnic groups of this vast, vast country.
What is fun to make of this?
Are we getting mixed signals here?
Were there certain areas that were not allowed to be admittance into this?
Did they just kind of not look the other way, I guess?
I think that, well, Western Incunabula, for instance,
Don't forget that the people that I'm talking about were part of the nomenclatura, of the absolutely upper levels of that society.
So they were safe in a way.
They were safe because they were perhaps had specialized knowledge.
They were physicists.
They were working.
They could go about their business as long as you were not obtrusive.
There were probably individuals who collected
There were certainly people who collected before the revolution, salacious, what you might call polygraphic literature.
Even during the Soviet period, I'm sure that there were such people.
If you kept a low profile view, you went about your business quietly, you would be left, you know, left alone.
You know, if you're Solzhenitsyn or something like that, you start causing trouble, then leave it at that point.
Most of these people who were involved in the bibliophilic societies were people who were working in defined areas, had specialized knowledge, had independent means, one kind or another, and went about their business.
So one could write, one could interview, one could write about such
people in this overall context of a society where people did read and had access to a certain kind of learning.
There were, of course, in libraries, restricted collections, the card catalogs were ten benches, and so on.
But still, it was a society that put major emphasis
on the book and on book culture, and that was very positive.
And if you behaved and followed, you know, more or less the norms of that society, one could develop significant erudition, one could develop student had the means, you could develop a significant collection and go about your business.
and you were relatively secure.
Everyone had their particular niche.
You had your template, your plan of work.
If you worked in an institute, every five years you would have to submit what you were going to, what book you were going to be writing next month.
That was approved, was subsidized, you know, and everything was in a kind of more or less working on some level.
The difficulty was that this kind of environment could exist when you had no framework for comparison.
And... This...
When the telecommunications, the political and telecommunications revolution took place in Eastern Europe, and people began seeing their situation in a broader context, this was no longer enough, because people want medical treatment, they want proper
They want proper food, they want proper travel privileges.
Because all of these academics that were working, were working at deflated wages.
They still are.
But they were protected.
And now, librarians and bibliographers are thinking, what, we have to become fundraisers?
Where is the, where has the dough come?
And is that kind of what he had a sense of at the dinner and Paul's, he expressed total amazement that Paul raises a half a million dollars a week.
In fact, that's a little bit more than that.
It's $600,000 a week.
But, you know, all of a sudden he's in the position of nurturing benefactors.
Very interesting, isn't it?
and doesn't really understand, uh, or is, I wouldn't say doesn't really understand, he's groping towards another side.
Yeah, and he's an old party guy, too.
Now that's the sense I get, because this was a very prominent communist, uh, this gentleman.
Not very prominent, but prominent enough.
But, but certainly with a sense of survival, so to be able to, to attempt when, when times change.
The transition.
Yeah.
And there you see the kind of dilemma that you had in this society.
Very significant learning, very significant book culture, the study of the book, the cultivation of the book.
But it was done in a hermetic environment.
and was done with tremendous subsidy, where people were always kind of rubbing elbows.
It was the same group of people.
There were certain individuals like you who would write a book a year,
Professor Nemirovsky, this great bookman still alive in Moscow, wrote a book a year.
He was head of the rare books division at the Lennon Library.
Professor Nemirovsky.
Here's one of his books.
The World of the Book.
from earliest times to the beginning of the 20th century.
And this is not a history just of the Russian book.
No, I saw it with Zeta Stolt in the cover of the recent series.
Exactly.
This is a universal history of book culture.
And you could do this.
You would get probably a thousand new books as an honorary, you know, for this, some different stuff, as if he was going along swimmingly for a person like you.
but in that hermetic environment.
Well, for example, you would have... Here's a book on all these.
Beautifully produced on Malnutrius.
Look at that.
Very well done.
Lovely paper, nice vinyl.
Yeah, exactly.
And all of these people...
would have to work controlling every word that they wrote and printed and also in their correspondence.
I got a letter from him before the decline of the Soviet Union.
From him in?
Nimrodsky.
When my little collection of essays came out in the early 80s, I specifically wrote on book people
has fallen into political difficulty in Russia.
Is it in Russian?
No, my collection is in English.
Is it something I'm going to be able to see?
No, I'm going to give you a marked copy.
I don't have any copies.
Can I Xerox it?
You don't mind if I put it in the machine?
Not at all.
I got a letter from him, a review, where he says, you know, I admire the fact that, you know, you seem to know something about the literature, but I absolutely cannot agree with you as to your political choices.
Why did you... He said to you.
Yeah, the focus on these people who generally had an antagonistic attitude towards my country.
He had to write that.
Because he felt that his letters would be read or something.
It makes sense, but I can see it.
What's his first name, by the way?
Evgeny.
Y-E-G-G-N-Y, right?
I have... I wonder whether I kept my tip-in letters from refuse.
I'm not sure how's he doing now.
And I suppose doing... Oh, okay.
Edward, to jump back to something we said earlier, and I'm going to use it because it was something very interesting.
When we were talking, and you read
summarized the thrust of this book and it was a looking backward kind of a procedure to make everyone part of the soviet empire right uh and obviously that failed didn't it i mean now that we found i mean you do have the reassertion of of of individual cultural and national senses of book culture and history and the whole
Is there any way that what happened in Sarajevo could be worked into this as an example of anything?
Because I have already done some work on, you know, the destruction of that library in one night, 1.2 million books.
And you do have, you know, Muslims and Serbs and poets and all.
Nick, let me respond in the following way.
Actually, I did find this letter I folded into the book because it was a kind of classic.
And I'll translate it for you.
During the imperial period in Russia, and again, we're only focusing now on the East Slavs, and I want to continuously make that caveat.
that we're talking about the Belarusians, Ukrainians, Russians, and the Russian Empire.
We're leaving out, for now, the South Slavs, we're not talking about the West Slavs, the Czechs, the Poles, and so on.
We're not talking about the Baltic areas, we're not really talking about the Caucasus.
The Russian Empire, if they would identify,
a major document, a major book.
In some part, there's some territory that they conquered and incorporated together.
Let's say Poland.
After the conquest of Poland, the 18th century, they would identify a particular library, the Zalewski library, whatever.
That would be brought to the center.
You'd have a great manuscript somewhere in Kiev.
The center being?
Moscow, St.
Petersburg.
So Moscow, did that kind of supplant St.
Petersburg during that period?
Let me say that Moscow
continued to be throughout the imperial period, even after the founding of St.
Petersburg at the beginning of the 18th century.
One of the Catholics, the phrase was always the two Catholics, Moscow and St.
Petersburg.
Moscow was the coronation capital.
But they would always incorporate great treasures into central collections.
the way the Romans did 2,000 years ago.
Is that right?
Is that a fair comparison?
Many of us did it.
But now the question becomes, these ethnic groups, whether you're Georgian, Armenian, whether you're Chechen, whether you're Uzbek, whether you're Kazakh,
at various points in time, some of your treasures were brought to the center.
This is particularly the case with Ukrainians, now an independent state, with 50 million people in Ukraine.
And some of their greatest treasures are in St.
Petersburg, and still in the Russian National Library.
And during the Soviet period,
It was possible.
Was it they petitioned to get any of these things back?
That is going on.
I already wrote down that book.
Right.
You've seen it.
This is the English-language version.
But if you look into his manuscript department,
you see some of the greatest treasures of the British culture.
In there?
And if I were the director of New Britain, I would begin a process of trying to readjust, to see whether some of these treasures... Do you think they have already made such inquiries?
I have never spoken with Zaitsev
or any other library director.
That's a question for him, if I ever have an opportunity to say.
Absolutely.
How, for example, Chinese Popular Prince, write this book.
Chinese Popular Prince.
Okay.
The reason that the Russians could write a book like this is that they had a mission
in Peking that existed almost 300 years, so-called Peking Mission, to convert, you know, the Chinese to orthodoxy.
When the heads of the missions were in residence, some of them were great scholars, the priests, they brought back cartloads of books
manuscripts to the imperial capital.
So you have, in Russia, but also in other Eastern European countries, and this is an important point that I think you want to think about.
In all of these countries, you have vast collections
of book cultures of other major world civilizations.
So the French book in Russia, the Chinese book in Russia, the German book, the Italian book, and so on and so on.
It's not only what these collections hold of their own native traditions, that's understood that they would have that, but what is
Remarkable is that like the United States, which at the beginning of the 20th century, into the 20s, saw itself as the inheritor of European civilization, so you have people like Morgan going about buying goods.
I mean, why should this man be concerned with the Gutenberg Bible?
But he saw himself as the protector of European civilization here in America.
And similarly, this empire,
saw itself as a kind of gatherer.
They had a mission in the Holy Land with Porfirio Spinsk in the 19th century, so he got the Codex of Aeticus, he brought it back to St.
Petersburg.
Is there anything written on this that I can read?
I'm not sure that
Yeah, I'm discreetly sure one could go through this and through our library and so on, one would find maybe individual articles on Russians as collectors or Eastern Europeans.
But this sounds like a systematic policy of governmental collection.
Yeah, of course, certainly beginning in the 18th and 19th century, the rulers and their grandees of the empire, they set about,
Well, you said the empire saw itself as a gathering.
You're going way back prior to the Soviet period.
Prior to the Soviet period.
So, actually, with Catherine the Great being, you know, a good place to start, probably.
And again, as a storyteller, as a writer, you know, again, I'm looking for stories.
You know, Paul's description of Voltaire's Library in St.
Petersburg is a perfect little way almost to enter this, wouldn't you think?
That's one way.
One of the points I was trying to make is that when you consider these cultures, Eastern European cultures, realize that you're talking about civilizations that have materials and book cultures
that are relevant to other civilizations.
Russian explorers, for example, and I always keep going back to the Russians because it's the easiest example, but one could find analogous among Bohemians or Czechs who also at certain points in their history were very, you know, omnivorous in the 17th century and gathered all kinds of things.
Well, the Swedes, I mean, they was... Of course.
Did they plunder a...
during the Thirty Years' War.
But, and they have some of the great Slavic collections in, actually, in Uppsala.
But you look at these civilizations and people don't realize how rich they are and how much they have of relevance to other cultures.
Just recently, look at the number of articles that have been written in the New York Times on Hebraica.
in Eastern Europe.
Hebraic in Ukraine.
Hebraic in Lithuania.
Hebraic in Russia.
Well, look at the Sarajevo-Hargada.
That was the most prominent item that was saved during the whole attack.
So, one, in discussing, and let me, one other thing that, and it ties into something I mentioned earlier, that when they
when they dealt in Soviet historiography with the history of book culture, the emphasis always was on their own book culture.
The fact that there were significant Western influences on Russian culture was often downplayed.
They did not advertise
the fact that they have great Hebraic collections, because it's a political issue.
You don't want to emphasize Jewish culture, because this is a culture that is, in their view, a sectarian, in their view.
Well, why didn't they sell it the way they sold you the other stuff?
What kind of decisions were made on selling things for her parents?
Okay, let me say the following.
Maybe that's a naive question, but... I think that
It could have come to that.
But it stopped short.
It stopped short of it.
Because if you had begun to sell large collections of Hebraica, the political ramifications of that
would have probably been unmanageable.
I think that people in the West, there are very significant and influential Jewish communities in the West.
It would have raised questions about what else do you have?
Let us have
now access, now that you're selling it, that is getting to your archive.
They did sell stuff though, I do think.
They sold primarily Russian imperial material, books that had artifactual significance that you, you know, with plates and photographs, things that you could get money for.
And relatively less
of Western illuminated manuscripts.
In other words, stuff that reflected their own prior history.
Their own prior history, and a history that they were anxious to flush down.
And which they were publicly abrogating, too.
That's the critical one.
The selling was a confirmation that we are politically abrogating the imperial regime.
Take the garbage.
Do what you want.
You want to give us money for it, we're pleased to take it.
All the best.
We're not going to do it with Jewish material.
Because we can get in trouble.
We can get, it'll become unmanageable.
And also it's a window into other things.
Exactly, that we don't want discussed.
It's almost like the Schliemann Gold, right?
Right?
Let's just keep that thing very... Exactly.
And they just showed it when?
Last year.
It's the first time that they... Well, I mean, there had been an official mystery.
What happened to it?
And my feeling is that as time goes on, there will be other things that will be publicly owned up to.
Now, I think that
It's a very good point, by the way, since political stuff that is expendable and defensible to a political standpoint.
Yeah, because the people, you know, who were in control of the government, they saw what could be controlled politically and what might get unraveled, what might become excessive of czarist furniture,
furniture or various, you know, but they didn't sell the Impressionist paintings because they were not yet that desperate.
They sold some old masters because that was big bucks, which they needed at a particular point in time, and then that stopped.
It stopped like in the late 30s, and then stuff was resold
that was already in the West.
So, these sales took place at Gimbel's, Lord & Taylor's, at all the department stores and so on, here in New York, through Hammer, took place during about a 15-year period.
And then it stopped
And what appeared in The Post Worker was already in America.
It was a reselling of stuff that was already here.
Um... I think that... Does that change the trailer on?
Yeah.
Okay, good.
It's an hour on each side, and it'll give us a little beep when it's ready to be...
I think that it would be very good, would be very good, if in your next book you were able to take a part of the world, and it could be Eastern Europe, it could be the former Soviet Empire,
and to try to convey some of the same notions that you've put forth in this book and deal
with the complexity of Eastern Europe.
And Eastern Europe with all of its nuances, with all of these cultures that are represented there,
number one number two to kind of give some sense of the tremendous